6-8 English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello, this is 6-minute English from BBCLearningEnglish. I'm Neil
And I'm Becca
In this episode, we're discussing a food seasoning that's so popular
We eat around 3-quarters of a million tons of it a year
We're talking about pepper
Do you add pepper to your food, Becca?
I do know, yes, I think it's an easy way to add some spice
Yeah, I love a bit of pepper, I grind pepper on to everything
Well, everything
But I do like it
Given its popularity, it's surprising that most people know very little about pepper
Did you know, for example, that peppers are the fruit of vines
Often growing over 10 meters high
Our ancestors would be surprised how little we know
From ancient Greece onwards, pepper was prized as the black gold of ingredients
And explorers cross oceans in search of it
Discovering new continents along the way
In this episode, we'll get re-acquainted with pepper
And learn some useful new words and phrases too
And remember, you'll find a transcript for you to read along with us
As you listen on our website, BBCLearningEnglish.com
Okay, first I have a question for you, of course Becca
Although it's black pepper, you're most likely to see in shops and restaurants in the UK
There are hundreds of different varieties worldwide
But what is unusual about food quark, a white pepper from Vietnam
Does it a make people cry?
B tastes like parmesan cheese or sea, costs more than gold
Hmm, well, I don't think it would be as expensive as gold
And I kind of want it to taste like parmesan cheese
Okay, well, we'll find out later in the program
Matilda Rollinger is the daughter of Olivier Rollinger, an award-winning French chef
Famous for his use of spices
While other little girls of her age were sprinkling sugar on their breakfast yogurt
Matilda was the only girl in Paris sprinkling pepper
Today, Matilda runs the apiece rolling a spice shop in the opera area of the city
Here customers can find a huge range of peppers
From fruity red camboding camp pot pepper to Borneo's Sarawak black pepper with its Woody aroma
These peppers have strong distinctive tastes
But curiously, they enhance rather than overpower the flavour of the food you're eating
As Matilda explained to BBC World Service program the food chain
It will give a kick and transform it, but you will still have the flavour of the different ingredients
It will not disguise the other ingredient, but it will push them to flavour catalyst
We can say in punctuation like it's exclamation
Like an exclamation mark, exactly
Matilda says pepper gives food a kick
To give something a kick means to provide it with extra stimulation or excitement
Pepper also makes flavours more intense
Matilda calls it a catalyst
Something that causes another action to start or makes it happen more quickly
In fact, she says pepper is like an exclamation mark
Saying something is like an exclamation mark means it shows strong emotion or excitement
The same thing an exclamation mark does in written punctuation
Matilda's spice shop holds pepper tasting sessions
Where she explains to customers the origin of her peppers and how they grow
Changing colour as they harden in the sun
Reporter John Lawrence and attended one of these tasting sessions for BBC World Service program the food chain
The different colours of pepper though as Matilda started to say
Do not correspond to the different varieties but to the maturity of the pepper corns and what people do to them
They green when they young, black when they mature and dried, red when they're very mature
Grape pepper is an industrial creation not a botanical one
Ground to a fine powder it is says Matilda grey dust
She's not very keen on that one
The colour of pepper is not determined by the variety but by its maturity
A food's maturity describes the stage when a food is fully grown and ready to harvest
For peppers, this is when they wrinkle and go black
Often a pepper mill is used to grind pepper to crush it into powder
By pressing it between two hard surfaces
This happens with grey pepper and artificially produced pepper mix which Matilda is not keen on
Meaning she doesn't like it
We've learned so much about pepper
I'll look at it differently the next time I sprinkle some on my food
Okay now I think it's time to reveal the answer to your question
Yes, I asked you what's unusual about food quark a white pepper from Vietnam
I answered B because I wanted to taste like Parmesan cheese
Well you're lucky because it is in fact B it tastes like Parmesan cheese
Well done
Okay, let's recap the vocabulary we've learned starting with the phrase give something a kick
Meaning to add extra thrill or excitement
A catalyst causes something to start or speeds it up
If you say something is like an exclamation mark you mean it signifies strong emotion
Surprise or excitement just like an exclamation mark does in writing
A food's maturity refers to the stage when it's fully grown and ready for harvest
To grind food means to crush it into powder by being pressed between two hard surfaces
And finally if you're keen on something you like it and enjoy doing it
Once again our six minutes are up
But remember you can find worksheets, quizzes and loads more resources to improve your English on our website
BBCLearningEnglish.com
See you there soon, but for now it's goodbye
Goodbye
6.8 English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com